Add descripition of a production deployment. (#99)
thehyve/pmc-conversion: README.md

./scripts/run_tests.sh
```

## Deployment

> Instructions on how to set up the pipeline on a production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instructions on how to set up the pipeline on a production environment manually. The pipeline can also be installed with Puppet using the [pmc_pipeline](https://github.com/thehyve/pmc_pipeline) module.
```

Author: This is still a private repository. Maybe we can discuss making it a public one.

Reviewer: Good point. Good to leave it like it was.

### Dependencies

- Python >= 3.6,
- Package `python3.6-venv` (or higher version, depending on the version of Python) installed, 
- Git,
- An SMTP server, listening on port 25.

### Installation steps

#### Create required users

Create users `pmc` and `drop` with home directories:

```shell
sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash pmc
sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash drop
```

If there is a list of users who should be able to log in as `drop` and/or `pmc` user through SSH,
add /.ssh directories inside the newly created home directories of these users and put the list of SSH-RSA keys

> inside `authorized_keys` files (`home/pmc/.ssh/authorized_keys` and `home/drop/.ssh/authorized_keys`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inside `authorized_keys` files (`/home/pmc/.ssh/authorized_keys` and `/home/drop/.ssh/authorized_keys`).
```

#### Create required directories

The following directories should be created for `pmc` user:
- /home/pmc/data
- /home/pmc/working_dir
- /home/pmc/config
- /home/pmc/libs

```shell
sudo -iu pmc
cd /home/pmc
mkdir data working_dir config libs
```

and for `drop` user:
- /home/drop/drop_zone

```shell
sudo -iu drop
cd /home/drop
mkdir drop_zone
```

The `drop_zone` directory is where the pipeline checks for new data by default. It can be configured to be
a symbolic link to the actual data directory, where the source data is delivered.

To create a symlink, run:

```shell
ln -s /home/drop/drop_zone /home/drop/sample_test_data_folder/sample_dataset
```

#### Prepare the repositories

Clone the indicated pipeline repository tag into the `pmc` user home directory.

```shell
sudo -iu pmc
cd /home/pmc/
git clone https://github.com/thehyve/pmc-conversion.git --branch <tag_name> --single-branch
```

Initialize git repositories inside `/home/pmc/data` and `/home/pmc/config` directories:
```shell
cd /home/pmc/data
git init
cd /home/pmc/config
git init
```

#### Prepare external tools

> Download the latest version of the transmart-copy.jar from the Nexus repository of The Hyve:
> ```shell
> curl -f -L https://repo.thehyve.nl/service/local/repositories/releases/content/org/transmartproject/transmart-copy/17.2.8/transmart-copy-17.2.8.jar -o transmart-copy.jar
> ```
> 
> Then put the transmart-copy.jar inside `/home/pmc/libs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the latest version of the transmart-copy.jar from the Nexus repository of The Hyve to `/home/pmc/libs`:
```shell
curl -f -L https://repo.thehyve.nl/service/local/repositories/releases/content/org/transmartproject/transmart-copy/17.2.8/transmart-copy-17.2.8.jar -o /home/pmc/libs/transmart-copy.jar
```
```

#### Prepare the configuration

> Prepare the [luigi.cfg](#luigi-configuration) and [email_config.cfg](#email-configuration)

Reviewer: Could you also update these templates to have more reasonable defaults? E.g., `/home/drop/drop_zone` for `drop_dir`, `biomart_user` for `PGUSER`, `http://localhost:8081` for `transmart_url` and mark the values that (may) need to be changed with `# CHANGE ME`?

Reviewer: It is clear that the pipeline was created a while ago ;)

and put them into the `/home/pmc/pmc-conversion/` directory.

#### Create a Python3 virtualenv

```shell
sudo -iu pmc
cd /home/pmc
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate

> python3 -m pip install -r /home/pmc/pmc-conversion/requirements/requirements.txt

Reviewer: In the virtual environment the `pip` command is already set correctly, so you can use:
```suggestion
pip install -r /home/pmc/pmc-conversion/requirements/requirements.txt
```

```

> #### Configure a Luigi deamon service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configure a Luigi daemon service
```

Add a new systemd service:
```shell
sudo vi /etc/systemd/system/luigi.service
```

and add the following content:
```
[Unit]
Description=PMC Luigi daemon service

[Service]
ExecStart=/home/pmc/venv/bin/luigid
User=pmc
WorkingDirectory=/home/pmc/pmc-conversion
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
Save and close the file.

Then start the service:
```shell
sudo systemctl start luigi
```

and automatically get it to start on boot:
```shell
sudo systemctl enable luigi
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a 'Test the pipeline' step to manually trigger a data load?
